---
layout: post
title:  "How To Do Random Things in Jekyll"
date:   2016-11-08 20:17
updated: 2018-08-24 12:20
update-abstract: "Added instructions on how to sort blog posts by updated, then by created and add an update abstract"
categories: how-to jekyll
---

Just seeing how easy it is to add a new post. Realistically anyway. Now this post serves as my place to put reminders and notes for how to make posts, format markdown, etc.

I never trust how difficult things may seem. They're probably twice
as difficult as I imagine them. If writing a post is this easy....

Oh look, it's not!

It didn't show up in the posts. 

Okay, I figured it out. If the date in the 'date:' entry up there isn't the same as the date in the file name of the page, it doesn't work.

And make sure you have a '.md' extension on the file.

#Hey, did you know?#

If you don't put a space before the first letter in a title after the '#' in a heading, Jekyll doesn't format it correctly?

# This is right#

See? Add a space.

# Titles#
Titles are separate from headers - titles are in the front matter. If you have too many posts with the same title they dont' show up right. You should fix that.

# Links#

Links look like [this](http://google.com). The text goes in the brackets, the link URL goes in the parenthesis. 

# Responsive Images#

Apparently this is an important thing. All I know is the image tag is pretty static and I need some magic happening there.

https://github.com/wildlyinaccurate/jekyll-responsive-image

I can't even gem install the thing yet.

# Inserting Hash Characters #

So obviously, the hash character (&#35) is used for section titles, so how do you put one into tricky places? You have to use HTML entity for the hash: & # 35 - but with no spaces

Yeah... That doesn't work very well. I have a few other ways to do this. Here's a failed attempt at putting a hash character first in a quoted section:
> # *.h = svn:keywords=Author Date Id Rev URL;svn:eol-style=native  

See? It treats the leading hash as a heading marker instead of as a hash. So, add a backslash before it like this:

> \#*.h = svn:keywords=Author Date Id Rev URL;svn:eol-style=native  

# Fixing Newlines in Quoted Sections #

Quoted sections look like this:

> Line 1
> Line 2
> Line 3

Oops - that doesn't look right, does it? That should be three different lines, but it's not. The reason for that is that there aren't enough spaces at the end of the lines.  If you add two spaces before you hit return then you get this:

> Line 1  
> Line 2  
> Line 3  

Ta-da.

And, sometimes quoted sections gobble up non-quoted sections:

> This is the quoted section
And this shouldn't be, but is.

So, add a blank line after the quoted section:

> This is the quoted section

And this actually isn't anymore.


# Fixing *'s in Quoted Sections #

I've had a situation with quoted text where I'm trying to express a file filter that encompasses all files (\*.\*) instead being evaluated as putting emphasis on the '.' (*.*). It probably also happens with non-quoted text too but I haven't checked. To fix this, escape the *'s with backslashes.

# Fixing Indentation in Quoted (Code) Sections #

If you try to write code with indents in quoted sections, the leading whitespace is gone:

> This has no leading whitespace  
>	This has a tab character   
>    This has four spaces  
> And all of them look the same  
> - An awful haiku  

To fix this, don't use quoted sections for code. Use highlighted sections:
> \{\% highlight python \%\}  
> Put code here!  
> \{\% endhighlight \%\}  

and replace 'python' with whatever your language is. I don't know what the valid languages are, so just try!

Just kidding, here's a few valid languages:

* python
* ruby
* dot - Graphviz markup
* c
* console - output from Bash or so forth
* makefile
* 

Note: there are excessive backslashes in there, but if I don't put them there then Jekyll chokes. Ignore/remove the backslashes.

# Centering Images #

I still haven't done this, but [here's](https://stackoverflow.com/q/255170) a stackoverflow link that discusses many options.

# Putting Directory Trees in Posts #

I like to use the \*nix *tree* command to generate visual representations of my directory structure for projects, but the blockquote munges the spacing and it looks bad. Like this:

> .  
> └── res  
>     ├── tex  
>     └── txt 

Where I'd rather it appear like this:

{%highlight TeX %}
.  
└── res  
    ├── tex  
    └── txt 
{% endhighlight %}

The trick is to use Jekyll's code highlighting instead of blockquoting to hold the information and specify the language for highlighting as 'TeX'. Sadly, I can't figure out how to *show* you this because all of the markup is gobbled up by Jekyll, but you should get the idea.

# Sorting Blog Entries by 'Updated' #

Sometimes I like to go back and edit blog posts to add content. For example, this blog post gets continually updated whenever I need to document how to do
various things in Jekyll.

On my blog page, I list all of my blog posts by the date they were created, but I want to sort them by the last time they were updated. Also, I want to include
an abstract of the changes made and show that on the blog page as well. Ideally, all blog posts would be sorted first by the update date, then if that doesn't
exist, by the creation date. I'd like to show the abstract on the blog page as well so people can see what was changed.

I've figured out how to do this. 

I wanted the abstract to be colored orange, so I had to go into the CSS files and add the color orange. The file I edited was  *blog root/css/main.scss*
Here's what it looks like with the additions:

{% highlight css %}
$text-color:       #111;
$background-color: #fdfdfd;
$brand-color:      #2a7ae2;
$orange-color:     #FFA500; //<----New line
{% endhighlight %}

Then, I had to add a new style for the abstract to *blog root*/_sass/_layout.scss. I added the style in amongst similar ones. Here's the added code with 
the surrounding entries:

{%highlight css%}
.post-meta {
    font-size: $small-font-size;
    color: $grey-color;
}

/*---Start New Entry---*/
.post-abstract {
    font-size: $small-font-size;
    color: $orange-color;
    font-style: italic;
}
/*---End New Entry---*/

.post-link {
    display: block;
    font-size: 24px;
}
{%endhighlight%}

Then, I have to add the new content to the blog list page. My blog list is in *blog root/_pages/blog.md*. Unfortunately, I can't show it verbatim because the Liquid
scripting in the code is evaluated as part of this blog post, but I've pasted it below with the Liquid tags in HTML comments.

{%highlight html %}
---
layout: default
permalink: /blog/
title: Blog
---

<div class="home">

 
  <ul class="post-list">
    <!-- assign created = site.posts | sort: 'date' | reverse -->
    <!-- assign updated = site.posts | sort: 'updated'  | reverse -->
    <!-- for post in updated -->
      <li>
        <!--if post.updated -->
        <span class="post-meta">Updated: {{ post.updated | date: "%b %-d, %Y" }}</span> 
        <h2>
          <a class="post-link" href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a>

        </h2>
        <!-- if post.update-abstract -->
        <span class="post-abstract">{{ post.update-abstract }}</span>
        <!-- endif -->
        <!--endif-->}
      </li>
    <!-- endfor -->
    <!--for post in created -->
        <!--if post.updated -->
        <!--else-->
        <li>
            <span class="post-meta">{{ post.date | date: "%b %-d, %Y" }}</span>
            <h2>
                <a class="post-link" href="{{ post.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">{{ post.title }}</a>
            </h2>
        </li>
        <!--endif-->
   <!--endfor-->}
  </ul>

  <p class="rss-subscribe">subscribe <a href="{{ "/feed.xml" | prepend: site.baseurl }}">via RSS</a></p>

</div>

{%endhighlight%}

Now, updated entries will be shown at the top with the date marked as 'Updated' and with the abstract shown below the title in orange italic text.

# Adding Check Boxes/TODO Lists #

[Some clever gent](http://blog.winddweb.com/implement-github-like-checkbox) figured out how to get check boxes into posts when you place this sort of text there:

> \[ \] TODO THIS!
