---
layout: post
title: Pancakes
date: 2025-08-19 19:02
categories: recipes pancakes breakfast
---

# Introduction #

Kids love pancakes. They want them all the time. They generally eat them. They're a good bet and if you get good at this recipe, a quick one.

# Materials #

Griddle or any large pan

Flour Sifter

Wooden Spoon

Large Measuring Glass

Whisk

# Ingredients #

## Pantry ##

2 C Flour

1 Tbsp Baking Powder

1 Tsp salt

## Refrigerator ##

1 Egg

2 C Milk

2 Tbsp Butter

# Steps #

Measure out the flour, baking powder and salt into the flour sifter and set aside. 

Melt the butter and set aside.

Pour the milk into the measuring glass, and add the egg and butter. Whisk the mixture until the egg is beat. Then, sift the flour mixture into the liquid. Then, whisk everything until mixed (i.e., no dry flour mixture remains) but don't overmix - if there are clumps, let it sit for a few minutes.

You can add flour or milk to get the mixture to the desired consistency. The mixture should pour well, but not be so runny that the pancakes spread out on the griddle.

Grease the griddle or pan with butter and bring it up to temperature - I use 325F on the griddle. Once up to temperature, pour pancake batter to create pancakes of desired size. Add in fruit such as blueberries, strawberries or bananas, or chocolate chips. I've even experimented with freeze-dried fruits to... limited success.

Generally, the fruits or chocolate will burn a bit onto the pan or griddle - make sure that the griddle is cleaned and regreased between rounds of pancakes. 




